<h1 align="center">How to Join the Bitcoin Cross Chain Ecosystem: Vendor Guide</h1>
<h4 align="center">Version 1.0 </h4>

English | [中文](https://github.com/ontio/cross-chain/blob/master/btc/How_to_Join_the_Bitcoin_Cross-Chain_Ecosystem-Merchant_Guide_CN.md)

## Introduction

The term vendors refers to the parties, both individuals and institutions, interested in providing cross chain transfer services. They do so by first registering a multi-signature account on the Bitcoin network. Customers simply send their cross chain transfer amount to this address, and the cross chain ecosystem carries out the actual transfer process. The vendor needs relayers that monitor the relay chain, and sign transactions.

The BTC that are transferred cross chain are locked in the multi-signature address. The customers thus need to trust vendors along with vendors having to ensure that they are trustworthy and take care of all the asset risks involved.

Say there are three business collaborators named Alice, Bob, and Carl. Bitcoin interests them, and so does the associated decentralized technology. Now they want to start a BTC business with a high level of complexity. But they are facing issues due the many limitations of the Bitcoin platform. So they want to make their business work in a cross chain ecosystem. As cross chain vendors they transfer BTC to other chains, such as Ethereum, and use the smart contract technology to provide their intended cross chain services. Let us take a closer look at how they go about becoming cross chain vendors.

## Tasks performed by the vendor

- **Locking BTC:** The amount of BTC that the user wants to transfer to the target chain is sent to the multi-signature address by the user, where it is "locked". After the BTC is locked, the cross chain ecosystem generates and sends the cross chain tokens to the specified receiving address on the target chain, thus completing the cross chain transfer. This process does not require any operations on the vendor's end.
- **Releasing BTC:** When BTC is transferred back to the Bitcoin network the relay chain helps the vendor create a transaction that releases the locked BTC in the multi-signature account and return it back to the user. The transaction fee is paid by the user themselves, and it deducted from the transfer amount. When the transaction is created by the relay chain, it is picked up by the signing tool. All the collaborators need to sign the transaction, which is then transferred to the BTC network. In the end, the relay chain combines the signatures and the transaction, and broadcasts it to the BTC network. The vendor does not need to maintain the UTXO of the multi-chain address as the relay chain takes care of that.

## Starting a New Cross Chain Service

### Cross Chain Setup

1. **Bitcoin Network:** Alice, Bob, and Carl all individually prepare their respective **BTC private keys**. They use their private keys to generate a multi-signature redeem script that requires at least two of three collaborators to sign a transaction. The `P2WSH` and `P2SH` multi-signature address is generated by this redeem script. The main purpose served by the multi-signature addresses is to lock the transferred BTC. Carrying out this action requires the majority approval from the collaborators. Operation such as generating private keys, the redeem script and address, etc. can be carried out using the [tool](https://github.com/ontio/cross-chain/blob/master/btc/redeem_tool_guide.md) provided.
2. **Ethereum Network:** Vendors need to develop a **smart contract** based on the ERC20 [template]() available for reference (here referred to as EBTC). This contract needs to be deployed on the Ethereum network. This contract will be used to receive the BTC transferred cross chain from the BTC network.
3. **Relay Chain:** Each collaborator needs to create a relay chain ecosystem **wallet**, and then register it on the relay chain to gain the ability to send and sign transactions. After completing the registration, everyone needs to use their bitcoin private keys and sign the contract hash, contract version, and the redeem script, and then link to the relay chain. After this, the vendors also need to register the fee rate (sat/byte) charged for the transaction that releases the locked BTC and a parameter to handle the change. The process is similar to contract registration; everyone signs and sends it to the relay chain. The process can be carried out using the [btctool](https://github.com/ontio/cross-chain/blob/master/btc/cross-chain_transaction_construction_tool_user_manual.md).
4. **Signing Tool:** Next, every collaborator needs to download the [signing tool](https://github.com/ontio/cross-chain/blob/master/btc/redeem_tool_guide.md). This tool is used to monitor the transactions on the consortium chain. When there is an amount of BTC transferred back to the BTC network from Ethereum, Alice, Bob and Carl all use their respective private keys to sign the transaction to release the locked BTC in the multi-signature contract. Finally, a multi-signature transaction is created on the relay chain and sent to the Bitcoin network.


### Vendor Starts a New Service

#### Step 1: Deploying a contract on Ethereum

The EBTC contract is deployed on the Ethereum chain. This contract is used to receive the transferred BTC. A contract template is available for reference [here](). Vendors can modify the template's redeem script and use the rest of the template as it is.

#### Step 2: Enabling the signing tool

Please follow the instructions described in the [tool guide](https://github.com/zouxyan/cross-chain/blob/master/btc/redeem_tool_guide.md) and import the encrypted private key into the tool to enable it and monitor the consortium chain transactions and carry out the signature process.

#### Step 3: Transferring from BTC to Ethereum

The user creates a transaction in the specified format and sends the BTC to the multi-signature address. An active relayer in the cross chain ecosystem will pick up this transaction and transmit it to the consortium chain. And in the end this equivalent amount will be transferred to the specified EBTC contract address on the Ethereum chain based on the chain ID when the six block confirmation is established in the Bitcoin network. Say 1 BTC is transferred to the Ethereum chain. 1 EBTC will be transferred to the Ethereum chain and the 1 BTC will be locked in the multi-signature address on the BTC network.

#### Step 4: BTC transferred back to the Bitcoin network

When the user wants to transfer their BTC back to the Bitcoin network they can directly invoke the EBTC contract's API, provide the information regarding how much amount is to be transferred back, the receiving address, BTC chain ID, etc. Next the signature tool will get the signatures of all the collaborators as per the redeem script and the transaction for releasing the locked BTC assets will be transmitted to the relay chain. An active BTC relayer will broadcast this transaction to the BTC network, and the amount will thus be transferred to the user's BTC account. The user needs to bear a nominal amount of transaction fee for this cross chain transfer. It will be deducted from the transfer amount. The amount is very minimal.

After completing a certain amount of testing, vendors can proceed to provide BTC related services to users by implementing complex logic in the form of smart contracts on Ethereum, which can be made possible using the cross chain ecosystem.

Similarly, cross chain services for other chains such as Ontology can also be implemented in the same way. The contract for a cross chain token deployed on the Ontology chain, say OBTC, maintains a one to one equivalence with BTC. This can also be implemented by modifying and personalizing the redeem script of the sample contract [template](). The contract can be deployed using Ontology's [SmartX](https://smartx.ont.io/). The rest of the process is the same as that on Ethereum, as described above.